NS

CHAPTER I

A LONG-EXPECTED PARTY

‘When Mr. Bilbo Baggins of Bag End announced thar be would shortly be
eek bexting his elevenry-frst birthday with a party of special magniScence,
there was rauch talk and excitement in Hobbiton,

Bilbo was very rich and very peculiar, and had been the wonder of the
Shire for sry years, ever since his remarkable disappearance and unexpe-
ted return. The riches he had brought back from his travels had now become
‘slocat legend, and it was popularly believed, whatever the old folk might say,
that the Hill at Bag End was full of runoels stuffed with treasure, And if that
wwas not enough for fame, there was also his prolonged vigour to marvel at.
‘Time wore on, but ir scemed to have Little effect on Mr, Baggins. At ninety
the was much the same as at fifty. Ar ninety-nine they began to cal him woell-
‘preserved; but unchanged would have been nearer the mark, There were some
that shook their heads and thought this was 100 much of a good thing; it
seemed unfait thst anyone should possess (apparently) perpetual youth os
well as (reputedly) inexhaustible wealth.

‘Ir will have to be paid for," they said, “M1 isa’: natural, und trouble will
conte of it!”

i But so far trouble had not come; and as Mr. Baggins was generous with

his money, mast people were willing to forgive him his oddities and his good
fortune. He remained on visiting terms with his relatives (excep, of course,
the Sackville-Bagginses), and he had many devoted admirers among the
hobbits of poor and unimportant families. But he had no close friends, until
some of his younger cousins began to grow up.

The eldest of these, and Bilbo’s favourite, was young Frodo Baggins.
‘When Bilbo was ninety-nine he adopted Frodoas his heir, and brought him
to live at Bag End; and the hopes of the Sackville-Bagginses were finally
dashed. Bilbo and Frodo happened to have the same birthday, September
2and. “You had better come and live here, Frodo my lad,” said Bilbo one dey;
i ‘and then we can celebrate our birthday-parties comfortably together.” At

(ut time Frodo was stilt in his tweens, as the hobbits called the irresponsible
‘wernies berween chitdhood and coming of age at thirty-three.

Twelve more years passed. Each year the Bagginses had given very lively
‘combined birthday-parties at Bag End; but now it was understood shat some-
‘Quite exceptional waa being planned for that autumn. Bilbo was going